{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0 {\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 DNMCPK+TimesNewRoman,Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\froman\fcharset0 DNMDCO+TimesNewRoman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f2\froman\fcharset0 VDZRX H+ Times New Roman PSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman PSMT};}{\f3\ftech\fcharset0 Symbol{\*\falt Symbol};}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 DNMDIL+Arial{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\froman\fcharset0 DNMDOH+BookAntiqua{\*\falt Book Antiqua};}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s0\f0\fs24\cf0\sbasedon222\snext0\ql Default;}{\s1\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\sbasedon0\snext0 Title;}{\s2\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\sbasedon0\snext0 Normal;}{\s3\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\sbasedon0\snext0 Body Text;}{\s4\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\sbasedon0\snext0 Body Text Indent;}{\s5\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\sbasedon0\snext0 HTML Body;}}
{\*\listtable {\list\listtemplateid3107386161 \listhybrid{\listlevel\levelstartat1\levelold0\levelfollow0}\listid797838039}}{\*\listoverridetable {\listoverride\listid797838039\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\generator Adobe Acrobat Exchange-Pro 7.0}{\info{\title The following is the BSD license template to be included as the preamble in each of the source files}{\author SCCD}{\creatim\yr2002\mo4\dy16\hr21\min45\sec35}{\revtim\yr2005\mo1\dy5\hr9\min21\sec49}{\id1241524}}
\pard\plain\ql\f0\fs24\cf0 \paperh15840\paperw12240\margt1400\margr1260\margl1660\sectd\sbknone\pard\plain\pghsxn15840\pgwsxn12240\margtsxn1400\margrsxn1260\marglsxn1660\pard\s1\fi0\ri0\li0\qc\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\cf1\fs32{\ul  }\ulnone\strike0\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s1\fi0\ri0\li0\qc\stextflow0\sa0\sb0
{\ul  }\ulnone\strike0\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s1\fi0\ri0\li0\qc\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\cf0\fs28{\ul THE BSD OPENSOURCE LICENSE }\ulnone\strike0\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s1\fi0\ri0\li0\qc\stextflow0\sa0\sb0{\ul  }\ulnone\strike0\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\fs24\f1 
 \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s3\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\f0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s3\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 The following is the BSD open source license template to be used in each of the source files of a program where we assert UC copyright. 
\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\f1  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 Attach the following notices to each source file.  In this notice there should be a pointer to where the B\f2 erkeley \f1 S\f2 
oftware \f1 D\f2 istribution (BSD)\f1  notice is to be found. \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 Copyright (c) \cf2 <YEAR>\cf0 , The Regents of the University of California. 
\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 Written by \cf2 <code author\rquote s name and email>\cf0 . \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 
UCRL-CODE\cf2 -<R&R number>\cf0 . \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 All rights reserved. \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 This file is part of 
\cf2 <code name>\cf0 .   For details, see\cf2  <URL describing code and how to download source>\cf0 . Please also read this link \endash  \cf3 Additional BSD Notice\cf0 . \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s4\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s4\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard \ls1\ilvl0\stextflow0\sa0\sb0
\fi-360\ri0\li1440\ql\s2 \u8226 \'95\f4  \f1 Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the disclaimer below.  \par\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\fi-360\ri0\li1440\ql\s2 \u8226 \'95\f4  \f1 Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the disclaimer (as noted below) in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.  
\par\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\fi-360\ri0\li1440\ql\s2 \u8226 \'95\f4  \f1 Neither the name of the UC/LLNL nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par\stextflow0\sa0\sb0
\fi-360\ri0\li1440\ql\s2 \u8226 \'95\f4  \f1  \par\pard\par\pard\s4\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;  LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON  ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 
 \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0\cf3\f5 Additional BSD Notice \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 
1. This notice is required to be provided under our contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).  This work was produced at the University of California, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract No. W-7405-ENG-48 with the DOE. \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 
 \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 2. Neither the United States Government nor the University of California nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately-owned rights. 
\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0 3.  Also, reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or services by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the University of California.  The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or the University of California, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. 
\ulnone\strike0\par\pard\s5\fi0\ri0\li720\ql\stextflow0\sa0\sb0  \ulnone\strike0\sect\sbknone }